and so it's really not about what you're
doing either which is really interesting
it's really about how you're doing it
it's really about oh is this is this a
little scary is this a little big does
it require you to go beyond what you
think is
[Music]
possible hey everybody it's Joe Hudson
and this is Brett kler and today we're
going to be talking about how to find
your purpose and the question is an
incredibly unique question in the fact
that when you start asking it you
realize that it falls apart and it
reveals something far more interesting
and far more meaningful for your
life
so there's this interesting phenomenon
that I've been noticing yeah
where a lot of people come to me and
they're like I'm looking for my purpose
yeah yeah yeah how do I find my purpose
and when I look at the people who are
just [__] crushing it in life yeah I
don't hear any of them really talking
about hey I'm so glad I found my purpose
because if not for that I'd be screwed
right yeah and I'm curious what's what's
behind that yeah you know I mean I
remember that time in my life there was
definitely a time in my life
where I was searching for a
purpose or at least that's what I was
telling myself I wanted to find a sense
of meaning a sense of belonging a sense
of I'm doing the thing that I'm supposed
to be doing and and there was a search
for it right there was some idea that I
could particularly think about I could
think about it enough that that like it
would happen and um interestingly I was
have a couple stories around it but
interestingly I was with my daughter
recently and we were in New York in new
college and she was talking about the
difference between her two summers One
Summer she went to Panama and she at 17
years old got herself an apartment and
helped study nature with the Smithsonian
and then this summer she went touring
through uh Europe with a friend drinking
partying sightseeing and she said that
the first one had a sense of purpose
that she missed in the second one H and
it was interesting because it wasn't her
purpose she wasn't say I'm looking for
my purpose
she just felt that sense of purpose in
doing it and I have no doubt that in her
life she'll do many other things that
will give her a sense of purpose and
many other things that will not give her
a sense of purpose and so one of the
things that I notice is that the idea
that it's your sense of
purpose or that you have to find it and
that you can think about it all of those
things really get in the way and that's
what happened with me is I was sitting
around thinking about how do I find my
purpose and and there was a rut in that
question there was a way in that in
which that question assumed the purpose
wasn't already there there was a way in
the question that purpose wasn't found
in how I did something there's a way in
that question
where um I felt like it was possible for
me to not be in my
purpose that even the questioning of how
to find my purpose wasn't part of my
purpose so there's a there's a way in
which the question itself
assumes that you are a dog that can't
bark how do i bark it's like we're born
with this thing and
and and the question is are we living it
in this moment and how can we
acknowledge if we're living it in this
moment and if not what has to change in
this moment to make us feel closer to
our purpose the purpose is found more
more often in the moment than it is
going to be found in some idea or some
book or some career or some job yeah so
so in the framing you're seeing that
there's like a there's a
seeking there's a denial of of having it
in in the search to know that you were
somehow not born with a
purpose if I look back on my
life there was something that I was born
with meant to
do it it's unfolding I still don't have
complete Clarity over it I don't know
where it's going to lead but I know that
in this moment there's a way that I feel
like I'm more aligned with my purpose
and or less aligned with my purpose and
there's been no moment that I can find
where I don't know if I'm more aligned
or less aligned with my
purpose yeah how I'm being how I'm
thinking how I am with you how I am with
myself all of that there's a purpose in
that yeah so there's another piece here
that it's rather than a decision it's a
recognition yeah and rather than an
outside thing it's an inside thing yeah
often times people confuse us oh I have
a sense of purpose but they're really
asking is what can I be acknowledged for
yeah where's the approval going to
where's the approval going to come from
which is interesting because it's just
the opposite they're looking to be told
what it is on some one right on some
level and the the interesting point
there is what if the purpose isn't
something that has to be found it's
something that has to be
acknowledged mhm you know and you see
some Purpose Driven books books about
how to find your purpose and then
they'll say something like notice all
the books that you're reading what is it
about that's going to tell you your
purpose and which is another way to say
that's there's an acknowledgement to it
it's it's less of a finding and it's
more of an
acknowledgement and and there's
something deeply scary that I find for
people scary for me to acknowledge that
purpose I remember I was I was at this
hot springs and I'm getting a massage
from this woman definitely a very woo
woman right and she's giving me this
massage and she stops and she said they
have a message for
you and I was like and she and the
message was something to the effect of
uh we can't wait any longer you know
what you're supposed to do this woman
knew nothing about me didn't know if I
was in any question of any of it but she
an evocative prompt anyway totally
exactly exactly and when I it hit me I I
was like oh [__] she's
right and it it it required that prompt
for whatever reason it came for whatever
weirdness that happened Serendipity that
happened in my life there I knew at that
moment oh there's there's something that
I'm supposed to be sharing me being of
service and helping people see
themselves more clearly is what I'm
supposed to be doing what's the
transition from from the questioning to
the the recogn
but like tracking that recognition one
of the things that I realized at the
beginning was it was scary there was a
aliveness to it there was a w that was
that was one of the first things and
it's interesting because I was talking
to my daughter about this and she was
saying in college she's missing a sense
of purpose and I was saying have you
ever felt purpose that didn't require
you to put yourself out there to have a
challenge to go
go the next step to to put out effort
some version of like oh this is I oh oh
my god oh you know oh some version of
that and she was like
No And to some degree that's part of the
equation because it if it's important to
you it's going to be a little scary it's
going to take a little efforts there's
going to need need to be a little oomph
and then interestingly later it's the
effortlessness
that tells me to some degree if I'm on
my purpose in the moment there's a way
in which if I'm aligned with who I am
and what I'm supposed to be doing it
requires less effort this like the
initial step takes a lot but then
eventually there's a way in which I'm
monitoring the ease in my system to tell
tell me how I'm living on purpose and
where I can find a deeper level of
purpose in this moment yeah kind of
teasing apart the different version of
the word effort there is interesting
because there's almost an effortlessness
in encountering the being faced with the
awareness that here's what I want to do
and that
requires me to show up fully that
requires my like my vivaciousness my
aliveness which from some perspectives
could be called effort but it's the
opposite kind of effort than a grind
maybe it's more it's there's a fear of
rejection that you have to overcome
because it's so
important it's so important to you and
the thing that when I said about my
daughter you know at first I I wrote
songs and did comic strips I did art
form and that was the good thing that
was my purpose and but business wasn't
and and there was this
understanding that that that's going to
change for my daughter that changed for
me into another thing into another thing
and then looking back oh there's this
thread that no matter what I was doing
business or art there's a way in which I
was constantly interested in who am I
what am I how do humans work how do we
see ourselves more clearly it was always
there and so it's really not about what
you're doing either which is really
interesting it's really about how you're
doing it it's really about oh is this is
this a little scary is this a little big
does it require you to go beyond what
you think is possible I was recently
just a second ago listening to a song
and said I I don't know any I don't know
any
love any Powerful Love or any worthy
love that didn't break my heart I feel
like that could be said about purpose I
don't know
any any purpose that I've ever lived in
that doesn't crack me open some way that
doesn't challenge me
to to to be Beyond Myself yeah I want
toct extract a little bit of a nugget
out of kind of what I'm picking up here
which
is around purpose as purpose is as an
object purpose is a thing that you can
be doing yeah or purpose as the emergent
property of how you are being and so
when you were describing like all the
different things you were doing in your
life and I do the same I look back
through my life and it's like okay what
did I do I did a lot of Bas jumping I
did some business I did some traveling I
did meeting people in different cultures
and learning and what was it all about
in in the way that I was doing it that
felt most me and it was exploring myself
it was exploring my relation to the
world and there's there's like you could
say there's an archetype of Explorer in
there on some level there's different
ways that I could have gone about those
same activities yeah that would have had
a different alignment to purpose than
one another and so I could look at the
contents of what I've done in my life or
the contents of what I do in my career
and that might tell me less than how it
is that I prefer to move about the world
and
what what kinds of ways of relating to
my
experiences move me the most
deeply yeah I I have no doubt in my mind
that this whole company my whole career
could completely collapse and I would
still be living my purpose
it's not it's not about what I do it's
about how do I do it it's
about it's about an acknowledgement it's
about the
moment and
that's and and it that throws the game
of how do I find my purpose what's my
purpose that's constantly thinking about
it just throws it all
away and and it feels like that's just a
way of proving that you're not enough
how do I explore
[Laughter]
purposefully right yeah yeah even the
way in which you're exploring has you
know is aligned with your purpose or
isn't aligned with your purpose
yeah so that I think that's a that's
that's that's the quintessential thing
about finding your purpose the the other
part that I think is really important
about living a a a life where you have a
sense of purpose is what you said it's
not a question anymore right there's
somebody comes to me with a million
dooll opportunity it's very easy for me
to say no or yes and because there's a
deep feeling of choicelessness I know
that life does not feel good if I'm not
living my purpose I know it doesn't go
as well if I'm not living my purpose I
know my Approach isn't as productive if
I'm not living my purpose and so this
choicelessness shows up
where it just hurts too much to do
anything
otherwise and
so there's no question left to be asked
even in the moment typically I mean
occasionally fear Rises and whatnot but
the most of the time everything is so
clear there's not a
question about it you're not worried
about the consequences anymore you're
not worried about how it's going to go
if it's going to go well if that's going
to work if that's not going to work that
all goes
away because you know that in this
moment it's going to suck and you've
been down the road enough times trying
to manage your purpose that you see it
doesn't work consistently enough mhm
that you just oh I know this is this is
who I am how I am this is this is the
place I have to go and at first that
also is really scary like oh like I
remember this time where I was so clear
I was supposed to do this thing and I
did not want to do it and my wife was
like don't do it and my daughter was
like don't do it I was like I got to do
it I feel the call they're like don't do
it I'm like I know I don't want to do
this and then I did it and it was the
right thing it was challenging as [__]
but it was the right thing and there's
this there's a part that's just very at
first and then you find out oh well that
that works and you just keep doing it
yeah and it's interesting how the the
flip from like uh from approval to
acknowledgement or recognition yeah you
know you know you're if you're looking
for your purpose from the perspective of
what is going to get me approval you're
never going to get the approval or the
purpose yeah but if you are doing what
you just described and you're just like
ah this it hurts too much to do anything
but this thing I've got to do this thing
and everyone's like no don't do it
there's no approval there no approval
but you do that over and over and then a
recognition builds the recognition with
you internally of like oh I'm I actually
am living my purpose is living through
me I remember this moment I was doing my
first second Retreat maybe and this
woman came up to me she goes you don't
have any choice do
you what how how did you know that how
did you see that like dumbfounded me
it's that M you know that moment where
you feel like deeply seen by something
but you you haven't fully even
acknowledged it in yourself yeah just
like when the when a moment hits you
yeah where you're oh this is the thing I
have to do and everyone's like no don't
do it exactly exactly I think that's the
important thing is one of the promises
of living your purpose is things like
that people acknowledge it people see it
you you get acknowledged etc
etc but living your purpose is a process
it's a Evolution it grows and part of
the time of living your purpose is
Discovery and fighting against it and
part of it is acknowledging it and doing
the scary thing and part of it is a
feeling of choicelessness and you don't
get to shortcut that stuff there is a
way in which it develops and so the idea
that I I'm going to go find my purpose
and then I'm going to have it instead of
I am on a journey and the whole journey
reveals my purpose is infused with
purpose is infused and two years two two
years in the journey you look back and
the idea of purpose is totally changed
20 years you look back and the idea of
purpose has totally
changed and and so
there's yeah there's a maturation in it
and so trying to jump it
is you know it reminds me of my
daughters when they were younger wanting
to be older you know it's like what this
is the process there are a lot of people
who go around the world as though
they're living their purpose and they
say that that say that they are and are
clearly grinding against the grain of
what's trying to actually happen in
their lives and so how do you how do you
know if you're fooling yourself like oh
I've got this purpose my purpose is to
save the world
right there can be some sort of neurotic
thing that moves you and convinces you
that it's a purpose but it doesn't feel
like the kind of feeling that I would
have when I say I'm living my purpose or
somebody else might have so there's a
different internal perspective on it
part of me wants to answer the
question
as if they feel like they're living
their purpose great and it will continue
to refine itself
and um part of me wants to answer the
question
which is if there's a tension and
friction in the whole thing and it tells
you that there's a way in which there
needs to be a refinement of the purpose
right that that
the that there's a way you can be more
attuned to your purpose more aligned
with your purpose there's a way that
you're not surrendered to it there's a
way you're not fully acknowledging your
purpose you said something beautifully
in this podcast which is when your
purpose is living you or some version of
that the more it's living you and so I
would just keep on going into that place
of surrender and then whatever reveals
itself will reveal itself yeah that sort
of turns the whole question on its head
so if if rather than I'm looking for my
purpose it's something more like where
do I feel the most resistance and
friction in my in living yeah my purpose
right now and then let's go there yeah
yeah yeah let's explore that let's
explore
that and and there's just another thing
which is there's no defense it would be
like you know
defending the fact that you have
sight it is this thing that's occurring
and you can't really deny it and you
can't really defend it so that's another
thing it it becomes very non-personal my
experience of the more I'm living my
purpose the more non-personal it gets
and when I made music I was constantly
terrified and wanting to know what
people thought about it and and and
though that was living my purpose
because it led me here there is a way in
which if I would have said oh how do I
live my purpose in this music right now
what's what feels more in my purpose
immediately it would have been oh what's
more in my purpose is to write this
music for me to play it in the way that
makes sense for me and so when you see
great artists that are deeply in their
purpose they're doing it for them yeah
and that way it becomes unassailable
yeah so the doubt there's there's no way
to doubt it exactly yeah well that was
fun that was a good one thank you Joe
thank you
everybody thanks again for listening
everybody if you enjoyed what you heard
today please share us rate US in your
podcast app leave us a review we really
love it when that happens it doesn't
change our sense of purpose though
[Music]